DOCS-3374: Document rounding policy (#2391)
MultiSafepay/docs: api/general/rounding-policy.md

---

> title: Rounding policy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Rounding convention
```

category: 623dacddb0cbdd0394b9f5a9
slug: 'rounding-policy'
order: 7
hidden: true
---

> MultiSafepay applies the following steps to calculate the total cost of the order, based on the items in the shopping cart:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MultiSafepay applies the following rounding convention when calculating the total cost of an order:
```

> 1. Calculate the total cost of the items in the shopping cart (excluding VAT). For each item in the cart, multiply the `unit_price` by the `quantity` of the item. Sum the results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Calculate the total cost of all items in the cart (excluding VAT).
```
Multiply the `unit_price` of each item by the `quantity` of the item. Add the results together, and round to **2 decimal places**: Items total.
```
```

> 2. Calculate the total VAT for all items in the shopping cart. For each item in the cart, calculate its VAT (if applicable) by multiplying the `unit_price` by the `quantity` of the item and multiplying the VAT rate by the result. Sum the results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Calculate the total VAT for all items in the cart (if applicable).
```
Multiply the total cost of each item by the VAT rate. Add the results together, and round to **2 decimal places**: VAT total.
```
```

> 3. Round both totals to two decimal places.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 4. Calculate the total cost of the order by adding together the two rounded totals.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Add the items total to the VAT total: Cart total.
```

> Apply the same rounding policy in your integration to ensure:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Apply the same rounding convention in your integration to ensure:
```

> - The `amount` of an order matches the total of the shopping cart.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The order `amount` matches the cart total.
```

> - MultiSafepay financial records match your records.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- MultiSafepay's records match your records.
```

> - E-invoices to your customers match your records.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- E-Invoices to your customers match your records.
```

## Example

> Given the following order:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the following order:
```

```json Order object
...
"shopping_cart": {
        "items": [
            {
                "name": "Product 1",
                "description": "",
                "unit_price": 13.761467889,
                "quantity": 2,
                "merchant_item_id": "00001",
                "tax_table_selector": "BTW9",
                "weight": {
                    "unit": "KG",
                    "value": 12
                }
            },
            {
                "name": "Product 2",
                "description": "",
                "unit_price": 8.2644628099,
                "quantity": 5,
                "merchant_item_id": "00002",
                "tax_table_selector": "BTW21",
                "weight": {
                    "unit": "KG",
                    "value": 1
                }
            },
            {
                "name": "Shipping",
                "description": "",

>                 "unit_price": 4.5412844037	,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                "unit_price": 4.5412844037,
```

                    ]
                },
                {
                    "name": "BTW9",
                    "standalone": true,
                    "rules": [
                        {
                            "rate": 0.09
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "name": "none",
                    "standalone": false,
                    "rules": [
                        {
                            "rate": 0
                        }
                    ]
                }
            ]
        }
    }
...
```

| Item name | Unit price    | VAT % | VAT per item | Quantity | Total excl. VAT | Total incl. VAT |
|-----------|---------------|-------|--------------|----------|-----------------|-----------------|
| Product 1 | 13.761467889  | 9%    | 1.2385321101 | 2        | 27.5229357798   | 30.00           |
| Product 2 | 8.2644628099  | 21%   | 1.7355371901 | 4        | 33.0578512396   | 40.00           |
| Shipping  | 4.5412844037  | 9%    | 0.4087155963 | 1        | 4.5412844037    | 4.95            |
| Total     |     	        |       |              |          |                 | 74.95           |

> 1. Calculate the total cost of the items in the shopping cart (excluding VAT). For each item in the cart, multiply the `unit_price` by the `quantity` of the item. Sum the results:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Calculate the total cost of all items in the cart (excluding VAT). Multiply the `unit_price` of each item by the `quantity` of the item. Add the results together, and round to 2 decimal places: Items total.
```

> 13.7614678899 \* 2 = 27.5229357798
> 8.2644628099 \* 4 = 33.0578512396
> 4.5412844037 \* 1 = 4.5412844037

> > 27.5229357798 + 33.0578512396 + 4.5412844037 = **65.1220714231**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> 27.5229357798 + 33.0578512396 + 4.5412844037 = **65.1220714231**
> 65.1220714231 = **65.12**
```

> 2. Calculate the total VAT for all items in the shopping cart. For each item in the cart, calculate its VAT (if applicable) by multiplying the `unit_price` by the `quantity` of the item and multiplying the VAT rate by the result. Sum the results:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Calculate the total VAT for all items in the cart (if applicable). Multiply the total cost of each item by the VAT rate. Add the results together, and round to **2 decimal places**: VAT total.
```

> 13.7614678899 \* 2 \* 0.09 = 2.4770642202
> 8.2644628099 \* 2 \* 0.21  = 6.9421487604
> 4.5412844037 \* 0.09 = 0.4087155963

> > 2.4770642202 + 6.9421487604 + 0.4087155963 = **9.8279285769**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> 2.4770642202 + 6.9421487604 + 0.4087155963 = **9.8279285769**
> 9.8279285769 = **9.83**
```

> 3. Round both totals to two decimal places:
> > 65.1220714231 = **65.12**
> > 9.8279285769 = **9.83**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 4. Calculate the total cost of the order by adding together the two rounded totals:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Add the items total to the VAT total: Cart total.
```

> 65.12 + 9.83 = **74.95**

## Implementation

> Use the following code to implement the rounding policy:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the following code to implement the rounding convention:
```
